Update energy.markdown with a troubleshooting section for missing entities (#28298)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/energy.markdown

If you have a sensor that returns instantaneous power readings (W or kW), then to add a sensor that returns energy usage or generation (kWh) refer to [Riemann sum integral integration](/integrations/integration/#energy)

<img src='/images/docs/energy/energy-overview.png' alt='Visual representation of how all different energy forms relate.' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none;'>

> ## Troubleshooting Missing Entities 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting missing entities 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Condition

```

> If you have a sensor you are trying to add to the energy dashboard, and it does not appear in the selection list, please check the following points to see why it may be missing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are trying to add a sensor to the energy dashboard, but it does not appear in the selection list. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Remedy

To find out why the sensor is not showing, check the following points:
```

> - The sensor must have the appropriate attributes. Check your entity attributes in `Developer Tools -> States` to confirm the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The sensor must have the appropriate attributes. Check your entity attributes in **{% my developer_states title="Developer Tools > States" %}** to confirm the following:
```
these [My links](https://my.home-assistant.io/faq/) take you directly to the location in your instance.

  - `device_class` must be `energy` for electricity grid, solar, or battery categories. It must be `gas` for gas, or `water` for water.
  - `state_class` must be `total` or `total_increasing`.

>   - The sensor must have an appropriate `unit_of_measurement`. See the help text for each category to see which units are accepted. Units containg an exponent must match superscript characters exactly as defined, e.g. `m³` is accepted, `m3` is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The sensor must have an appropriate `unit_of_measurement`. See the help text for each category to see which units are accepted. Units containing an exponent must match superscript characters exactly as defined, e.g. `m³` is accepted, `m3` is not.
```

  
  If any of the attributes are not correct, you can take it up with the integration developer that provides your sensor, or override missing attributes with [customize](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/).
 

> - The entity must be a `sensor`. If you are trying to add something from another domain (e.g. like an `input_number`), then you must first create a template sensor from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The entity must be a `sensor`. If you are trying to add something from another domain (for example an `input_number`), then you must first create a template sensor from it.
```

> - The entity must not have any statistics errors. Go to `Developer Tools -> Statistics` to check your specific entity. If your unit has a listed issue here, you must fix the issue before it can be added to the dashboard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The entity must not have any statistics errors. Go to **{% my developer_statistics title="Developer tools > Statistics" %}** to check your specific entity. If your unit has a listed issue here, you must fix the issue before it can be added to the dashboard. 
```

If you have a sensor that returns instantaneous power readings (W or kW), then to add a sensor that returns energy usage or generation (kWh) refer to [Riemann sum integral integration](/integrations/integration/#energy)

<img src='/images/docs/energy/energy-overview.png' alt='Visual representation of how all different energy forms relate.' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none;'>

## Troubleshooting missing entities 

### Condition

You are trying to add a sensor to the energy dashboard, but it does not appear in the selection list. 

> ### Remedy

Reviewer 2: The part below is not a remedy... it only shows what one can do to figure what is wrong.

Author: There are a few remedies there, like running the "Fix Issue" flow in statistics, or fixing the integration/template to have the correct value. 

This line was specifically requested to be added by c0ffeeca7, do you maybe have a suggested alternative verbiage that you would prefer?

Reviewer 2: Talked about it with @c0ffeeca7: "Resolution" is the general term we want to adopt for this.

Author: Replaced `Remedy` with `Resolution`

To find out why the sensor is not showing, check the following points:
- The sensor must have the appropriate attributes. Check your entity attributes in **{% my developer_states title="Developer Tools > States" %}** to confirm the following:
  - `device_class` must be `energy` for electricity grid, solar, or battery categories. It must be `gas` for gas, or `water` for water.
  - `state_class` must be `total` or `total_increasing`.

>   - The sensor must have an appropriate `unit_of_measurement`. See the help text for each category to see which units are accepted. Units containing an exponent must match superscript characters exactly as defined, e.g. `m³` is accepted, `m3` is not.

Reviewer 2: If this is the case, it should be reported.

Author: What specifically is this in reference to?

Reviewer 2: If an unit is not correct, it should be reported with the integration author.

Author: I am thinking more about templates here where users specify the unit_of_measurement as part of the template, not specifically integration provided sensor. I would expect that integrations would have this correct.

Reviewer 2: This is not the template documention, it will be highly confusing if we adjust general documentation to template specifics.

Author: Ok, though I'm not adding any language specific to templates, I'm just explaining the reason why I mentioned it. 

All I'm saying in this section is to check if the uom is correct. 

I'm not understanding what your suggestion is here to change? Are you requesting to strike this entire sentence? 

~~Units containing an exponent must match superscript characters exactly as defined, e.g. `m³` is accepted, `m3` is not.~~

Reviewer 2: No, I'm saying we should provide information for the user on what to do when it is incorrect. 

Right now, this writes what to check. So let's assume the user discovers the UoM is indeed incorrect: What should they do? -> Report an issue.

Author: This is already in the next line below this section:

> If any of the attributes are not correct, please open an issue against the integration that provides your sensor

>   If any of the attributes are not correct, you can take it up with the integration developer that provides your sensor, or override missing attributes with [customize](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/).

Reviewer 2: This is should **not!** be done.

The right path to take it to report is with the integration.

Author: Should I remove reference to customize? I guess it can be dangerous if user does not understand what they are doing.

I only mention it because that's what I've had to do in some cases, like when building my own water meters. I used `riemann` to integrate water flow rate to total water consumption, but that integration doesn't have any concept of water device classes. So I had to customize to add device_class `water` to the riemann helper. 

I feel like this is potentially a helpful path, but if you think we should not mention it I can remove it.

Reviewer 2: > Should I remove reference to customize?

Yes please 🙏 

>  I guess it can be dangerous if user does not understand what they are doing.

💯% 

>  I used riemann to integrate water flow rate to total water consumption, but that integration doesn't have any concept of water device classes

That sounds like an issue / think we should fix... Not work around...

Author: Reference to customize was removed.

 
- The entity must be a `sensor`. If you are trying to add something from another domain (for example an `input_number`), then you must first create a template sensor from it.

> - The entity must not have any statistics errors. Go to **{% my developer_statistics title="Developer tools > Statistics" %}** to check your specific entity. If your unit has a listed issue here, you must fix the issue before it can be added to the dashboard. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The entity must not have any statistics errors. Go to {% my developer_statistics title="**Developer tools** > **Statistics**" %}to check your specific entity. If your unit has a listed issue here, you must fix the issue before it can be added to the dashboard. 
```

Author: This was done.
